Minor editorial: deleted application-description.md as it is generated. Rewording on local-registries.md (#118)
margo/specification: system-design/app-interoperability/local-registries.md

# Local Registries

The margo specification differentiates 3 different kinds of registries: Application, Component, and Container Registries. 
1. A **Application Registry** hosts the Application Packages that defines through its [Application Description](https://specification.margo.org/app-interoperability/application-package-definition/) the application as one or multiple Components.
2. A **Component Registry** hosts the Components (which are deployable as *workloads*) and are provided  as **Helm Charts** or **Compose Archives**.

> 3. A **Container Registry** hosts containercd images references by those Components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. A **Container Registry** hosts container images referenced by those Components.

```

Author: done

The diagram below illustrates these functionalities and relationships of registries within margo.

```mermaid
flowchart
    A[WFM, or internal Application Catalog] -. Application Description links to .-> B[Component Registry]
    C[Application Registry] -. Application Description links to .-> B
    B -. Component links to .-> D[Container Registry]
    A -->|pulls in Application Package from| C
    F[App Developer] -->|uploads Applications Packages to| C

>     G[Marketplace, outside of margo scope] -. points to Application Package.-> C

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    G[Marketplace (outside Margo's scope)] -. points to Application Package.-> C

```

Author: done

```

> This section investigates options for configuring the usage of local OCI-based Component and/or Container Registries. The goal of configuring such local registries is to avoid the reliance on public, Internet-accessible registries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section investigates options for configuring the usage of local OCI-based Component and/or Container Registries. The goal of configuring such local registries is to avoid reliance on public, Internet-accessible registries. 

```

Author: done

> The reasons for not using such public registries are mainly twofold: (1) publicly hosted container images or Helm charts could become unavailable at some point, as the owner decides to take the container images or Helm charts off the public registry, (2) Internet connectivity may not be available to the device and hence public registries are not reachable, or (3) end-users want to host their own registries so they can do security scans and validate the packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reasons for not using such public registries are mainly twofold: (1) publicly hosted container images or Helm charts could become unavailable at some point, as the owner decides to take the container images or Helm charts off the public registry, (2) Internet connectivity may not be available to the device and hence public registries are not reachable, or (3) end-users want to host their own registries so they can do security scans and package validation.

```

Author: done

In terms of connectivity, we can thereby distinguish mainly between the following device categories:

1.	**Fully connected device**, which means a device is deployed in the field (e.g., a factory shop floor) and has access to the Internet.
2.	**Locally connected device**, i.e., the device has connectivity to a local network (e.g., factory- or enterprise-wide) and a local repository can be made reachable.
3.	**Air-gapped device**, i.e., the device generally is not connected and must be configured by accessing it directly (via USB, Bluetooth, or a direct network link, e.g., via Ethernet cable, or similar) for example via a technician’s laptop.

> Local registries for container images and Helm Charts can be used for all 3 categories of devices. In case of **fully connected devices**, although the device could reach the Internet, a local registry can still be useful, e.g., as a cache for remote registries to save on bandwidth or to have container images and Helm Carts reliably available. In case of **locally connected devices**, a local registry is required to enable the Workload Fleet Management Client (WFMC) to install a margo applications on the device, as the device/WFMC does not have Internet access. Thereby, the local registry can be setup as a _pull-through cache_ where data (e.g., container images) are cached locally when they are first retrieved from a remote source and subsequent requests for the same data are served from the local cache rather than fetching it again from the remote source. In case of **air-gapped devices**, a local registry has to be accessible on the technician's laptop (or other directly connected device), which performs the application installation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local registries for container images and Helm Charts can be used for all three categories of devices. In case of **fully connected devices**, although the device could reach the Internet, a local registry can still be useful, e.g., as a cache for remote registries to save on bandwidth or to have container images and Helm Charts reliably available. In case of **locally connected devices**, a local registry is required to enable the Workload Fleet Management Client (WFMC) to install a margo application on the device, as the device/WFMC does not have Internet access. Thereby, the local registry can be set up as a _pull-through cache_ where data (e.g., container images) are cached locally when they are first retrieved from a remote source and subsequent requests for the same data are served from the local cache rather than fetching it again from the remote source. In case of **air-gapped devices**, a local registry has to be accessible on the technician's laptop (or other directly connected device), which performs the application installation process.

```

Reviewer: There are changes in this suggestion. I'm not sure why it's not highlighting what they are.

Author: done
